Update github-vs-sourcegraph.md (#44174)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/getting-started/github-vs-sourcegraph.md

Please note: this page was last updated 2022-11-09, and we will continue to make updates as offerings from both GitHub and Sourcegraph evolve.

# GitHub code search vs. Sourcegraph

> GitHub code search is the next iteration of GitHub’s native code search and navigation functionality that can be used to search code stored in GitHub. It’s currently in beta preview and search is embedded into the main GitHub.com UI. 

Reviewer: Do we need to say that it's embedded in the UI?

Author: Previously we called out that it wasn't in the primary UI, so that is the only reason why I called out that it is now. I'll remove that part.

**Who should use Sourcegraph?**

> If you're brand new to code search and you want to try it with open soure repositories, visit sourcegraph.com/search. As your codebase grows in complexity, the value of code search quickly increases. Sourcegraph may be a good fit for your team if:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're brand new to code search and you want to try it, visit [Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com/search) to search across open source repositories. 

As your codebase grows in complexity, the value of code search quickly increases. Sourcegraph may be a good fit for your team if:
```

Reviewer: Do you think the "If you're brand new" sentence should go at the end of this paragraph? I worry that leading with it may suggest we are only for searching open source repos.

**Forks** are included in the index, but they are subject to the same limitations as other repositories, so not all forks are indexed.

> In addition to searching your private code, GitHub has indexed over 7 million public GitHub repositories which are also searchable from within the same search bar within the UI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to searching your private code, GitHub has indexed over 7 million public GitHub repositories which are also searchable.
```

I think it's implied that it's from the same UI.

Author: I'm not sure it's implied since GH offers a unified search experience and we don't.

In addition to searching your organization’s private code, you can use Sourcegraph.com to search across 2.8 million public repositories from multiple code hosts. 

<table>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>GitHub</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Sourcegraph</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Search across all repositories and forks</strong>
   </td>
   <td>✓ with limitations 
   </td>
   <td>✓ with limitations 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>    <td><strong>Sarch across files larger than 350 KiB</strong>

Reviewer: @lcolston08 - this introduces a typo. Is there anything we need to update here?

Author: Updated this chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <td><strong>Search across files larger than 350 KiB</strong>
```

>    <td><strong>Sarch across files larger than 350 KiB</strong>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <td><strong>Search across files larger than 350 KiB</strong>
```

   </td>
   <td>✗
   </td>
   <td>✓ 
<p>
Using the <a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/site_config#search-largeFile">search.largeFiles</a> keyword
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Search across all branches</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Only the default branch is searchable
   </td>
   <td>✓
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>    <td><strong>Search across public and private repositories from a single location </strong>

Reviewer: @lcolston08  You can search across public and private repositories in Sourcegraph (you can index any public repository). 

The difference is that with GitHub you can search across 7M open source repos + your code without needing to index anything.

Maybe it's:
- Number of open source repositories indexed
- Search across your repositories and indexed open source repositories at the same time: Yes for GitHub / Mention .com for SG
@iskyOS - what do you think?

Author: Well, you can search across both but not in a unified way, correct? I thought you had to use sourcegraph.com to search open source repos and Business/Enterprise is only for your private repos. Maybe I'm wrong there?

Author: Adding your suggestions of adding two lines in the table. Adding that now.

> In addition to searching your organization’s private code, you can use Sourcegraph.com to search across 2.8 million public repositories from multiple code hosts. 

Author: ```suggestion
In addition to searching your organization’s private code, you can use Sourcegraph.com to search across 25 million public repositories from multiple code hosts. 
```

<table>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>GitHub</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Sourcegraph</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Search across all repositories and forks</strong>
   </td>
   <td>✓ with limitations 
   </td>
   <td>✓ with limitations 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Sarch across files larger than 350 KiB</strong>
   </td>
   <td>✗
   </td>
   <td>✓ 
<p>
Using the <a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/site_config#search-largeFile">search.largeFiles</a> keyword
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Search across all branches</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Only the default branch is searchable
   </td>
   <td>✓
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Number of open source repositories indexed</strong>
   </td>

>    <td>7 million 

Author: ```suggestion
   <td>25 million 
```

In addition to searching your organization’s private code, you can use Sourcegraph.com to search across 2.8 million public repositories from multiple code hosts. 

<table>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>GitHub</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Sourcegraph</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Search across all repositories and forks</strong>
   </td>
   <td>✓ with limitations 
   </td>
   <td>✓ with limitations 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Sarch across files larger than 350 KiB</strong>
   </td>
   <td>✗
   </td>
   <td>✓ 
<p>
Using the <a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/site_config#search-largeFile">search.largeFiles</a> keyword
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Search across all branches</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Only the default branch is searchable
   </td>
   <td>✓
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Number of open source repositories indexed</strong>
   </td>

>    <td>7 million 

Reviewer: @lcolston08 Have you confirmed that it's 7?

>    <td>7 million 

Author: I doubt the 25 million is repos that have been indexed for searching. The blog post from last December says over 5 million, and the docs on cs.github.com still say 7 million. I can't imagine they jumped to 25 million in less than a year.  Blog - https://github.blog/2021-12-08-improving-github-code-search/#:~:text=At%20the%20moment%2C%20the%20search,repositories%20you%20have%20access%20to.

Docs - https://cs.github.com/about/faq

I'm not seeing 25 million anywhere related to repos indexed for searching.

  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>GitHub</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Sourcegraph</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Search across all repositories and forks</strong>
   </td>
   <td>✓ with limitations 
   </td>
   <td>✓ with limitations 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Sarch across files larger than 350 KiB</strong>
   </td>
   <td>✗
   </td>
   <td>✓ 
<p>
Using the <a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/site_config#search-largeFile">search.largeFiles</a> keyword
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Search across all branches</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Only the default branch is searchable
   </td>
   <td>✓
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Number of open source repositories indexed</strong>
   </td>
   <td>7 million 
   </td>
   <td>2.8 million 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>    <td><strong>Search across both your private repositories and public repositories at the same time</strong>

Reviewer: @lcolston08 - I don't think we need this line. I imagine it's assumed you can search across public and private repositories at the same time.

Code search filters help you refine and narrow search query results to be more relevant. Both GitHub code search and Sourcegraph include filters.

> GitHub code search includes filters such as language, repository, path, and file size. GitHub automatically suggests filters to apply to your search based on your search history and information about you, such as your organization. GitHub also offers a fuzzy finder using filters to complete a code search query. 

Reviewer: Can you please check this language with eng?

Author: Checking now

Author: @jplahn Seeing if you don't mind reviewing this language in regards to GH. I'll send you the screenshot I'm going off of.

Reviewer 2: I'd sub "fuzzy finder" with "autocomplete" or something similar. Fuzzy finder as a term strikes me as overloaded and autocomplete seems more precise in this context

GitHub code search includes filters such as language, repository, path, and file size. GitHub automatically suggests filters to apply to your search based on your search history and information about you, such as your organization. GitHub also offers a fuzzy finder using filters to complete a code search query. 

> Sourcegraph filters reduce the scope of search query results by language, repository, path, author, message, content, timeframe, visibility, and more. Sourcegraph does not automatically suggest filters.

Reviewer: @lcolston08 - we have an experimental fuzzy finder: https://sourcegraph.slack.com/archives/C89KCDK5J/p1665601547150969

Author: Looks like the fuzzy finder is turned on for internal testing, and I'm not seeing any public-facing docs.

Code search filters help you refine and narrow search query results to be more relevant. Both GitHub code search and Sourcegraph include filters.

> GitHub code search includes filters such as language, repository, path, and file size. GitHub automatically suggests filters to apply to your search based on your search history and information about you, such as your organization. GitHub also offers a auto-complete using filters to complete a code search query. 

Author: ```suggestion
GitHub code search includes filters such as language, repository, path, and file size. GitHub automatically suggests filters to apply to your search based on your search history and information about you, such as your organization. GitHub also offers auto-complete using filters to complete a code search query. 
```

> Sourcegraph filters reduce the scope of search query results by language, repository, path, author, message, content, timeframe, visibility, and more. Sourcegraph does not automatically suggest filters, and does not have the ability to complete a fuzzy find using filters. 

Author: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph filters reduce the scope of search query results by language, repository, path, author, message, content, timeframe, visibility, and more. Sourcegraph offers auto-completion on filters in the search query. 
```

Both GitHub and Sourcegraph offer out-of-the-box, search-based code navigation. This version of code navigation uses search-based heuristics to find references and definitions across a codebase without any setup required. It is powerful and convenient, but it can sometimes present inaccurate results. For example, it can return false positive references for symbols with common names. It is limited to returning definitions and references within a single repository (it won’t track references across multiple repositories).

> GitHub’s [search-based code navigation](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/using-files/navigating-code-on-github) officially supports 10 languages according to the documentation, but more languages are supported in the latest beta preview. Sourcegraph’s [search-based code navigation](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/search_based_code_navigation) supports 40 languages.

Author: LGTM

## Availability

> GitHub code search is currently available through a Public Beta (you can sign up for their [waitlist](https://github.com/features/code-search-code-view/signup) to request access). This technical preview is not yet available for GitHub Enterprise. 

Reviewer: Are we calling it beta preview?

> GitHub code search is currently available through a Public Beta (you can sign up for their [waitlist](https://github.com/features/code-search-code-view/signup) to request access). This technical preview is not yet available for GitHub Enterprise. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub code search is currently available through a beta preview (you can sign up for their [waitlist](https://github.com/features/code-search-code-view/signup) to request access. This beta preview is not yet available for GitHub Enterprise. 
```
